Can I get help with paying my overdue rent?

You may be eligible for Rent Arrears Assistance. This is a one-off loan for tenants who have overdue rent to pay and risk losing their tenancy because of it.Who can get Rent Arrears AssistanceYou might be eligible if you:have overdue rent to pay
risk losing your tenancy because of it
are the tenant (including by way of a Family Violence Act order) and
are likely to stay in the home if you pay the overdue rent.
You must be either:a NZ citizen or
a permanent resident and have lived in NZ for at least 2 years since becoming a permanent resident.
It will also depend on:the value of the income and assets you and your spouse have
whether the Tenancy Tribunal has ordered you to leave
 whether if you pay the overdue rent you can stay and,
whether your tenancy is covered by the Residential Tenancies Act.
When you apply you must show proof of the amount you need.What you need to apply for Rent Arrears AssistanceFirst, call Work and Income to book an appointment.Next, get the documents you need for your appointment - what you need to bring depends on whether you are already receiving assistance from Work and Income.For example, you need:a letter from your landlord, the Tenancy Tribunal or Tenancy Services, showing how much overdue rent you owe, and
either:
the tenancy agreement with your signature on it, or
a tenancy order with your name on it.

If you are not already receiving help from Work and Income, you also need to provide:proof of your income
information about your assets (such as a caravan, boat or second property)
proof of ID for you, your partner and your children
your bank account number
proof that you are a New Zealand citizen or permanent resident.
At your appointment, Work and Income may ask you to complete a Rent Arrears Assistance form, and ask your landlord to complete a Supplier Registration form.If Work and Income approves your loan, they will pay the money directly to your landlord.Work and Income will arrange a repayment plan for you.You can only get this loan once in a 12-month period, unless there are exceptional circumstances.More informationMore details about the loan, and how to apply, is on the Work and Income website.  Print 