What can I do if a Tenancy Tribunal order is not followed by the other party?

If you are a party in a Tenancy Tribunal case, and a Tenancy Tribunal order is not carried out, you can try talking to the other party to resolve the problem. Otherwise, your options will depend on the order that you need enforced. If the order was for the other party to pay you money, you can apply to the Collections Unit of the Ministry of Justice to recover the money (the Collections Unit deals with recovering unpaid civil debt).As examples:A tenant can apply to the District Court to enforce a Tenancy Tribunal order:
requiring their landlord to return bond money;
requiring their landlord to do repairs and maintenance to the rental property.

A landlord can apply to the District Court to enforce a Tenancy Tribunal order to:
help them evict a tenanct and regain possession of their rental property;
enable them to seize the tenant's possessions and sell them to recover unpaid rent.

You generally have to pay a fee for an enforcement order and would have to know the current address of the other party. You might be able to recover any fees you paid in applying to have the Tenancy Tribunal order enforced, when you apply to the Court.More information about enforcing a Tenancy Tribunal order is on the Tenancy Services website and the Aratohu Tenant Advocacy website..The Tenancy Tribunal does not deal with disputes between flatmates, or disputes in private boarding situations (including where the renter shares the property with the owner or a member of the owner’s family)  - these are generally dealt with in the Disputes Tribunal. If you are not sure who can help with your renting-related dispute your local CAB can help you work it out.  Print 