If I am a flatmate or boarder, can I be made to leave because I tested positive for Covid-19 or because of my vaccination status? 

If you are a tenant you have protections under the Residential Tenancies Act. This means your landlord cannot end your tenancy without a valid reason. Read more about your tenancy rights in relation to Covid-19.You do not have the same rights as a tenant if you are a:flatmate and not named on the tenancy agreement; or
boarder (ie, your landlord or a member of their family lives in the same house or apartment with you;
In general, if you are a flatmate but not a tenant, then your flatmates who are tenants can ask you to leave for any reason; and if you are a boarder, the homeowner can ask you to leave for any reason. In both situations they need to give you notice in keeping with what you have agreed. This may be in your flat-sharing agreement if you have one. If not, they must give you reasonable notice. However, if you think they are discriminating against you on grounds of your health or disability (or any of the unlawful grounds for discrimination), you can contact the Human Rights Commission to make a complaint. Boarding house tenanciesSome boarding houses are covered by the Residential Tenancies Act. A landlord of this kind of boarding house can end a tenancy with 28 days’ notice, without needing a valid reason.If you have Covid-19 and had to leaveIf you are made to leave your flat due to your having Covid-19, you might be able to self-isolate in a quarantine facility. Check with your local public health team.  Print 