What do I need to do if I want the tenant to leave my rental property?

As a landlord, you can end a periodic tenancy by:giving your tenant the right amount of notice - if you have a valid reason for ending it, or
applying to the Tenancy Tribunal, if your tenant has repeatedly:
 displayed anti-social behaviour or
been late with paying rent. 

If you have a valid reason for ending a periodic tenancy, you can do it by giving notice to your tenantLearn more about what counts as a valid reason to end a periodic tenancy,  and how much notice you must give your tenant.You can apply to the Tenancy Tribunal if you gave your tenant multiple notices to remedy antisocial behaviour or late rent You can apply to the Tenancy Tribunal to end a periodic tenancy if the tenant:engaged in anti-social behaviour on at least three occasions in 90 days, and the landlord has issued them with a notice to remedy each time. Examples of anti-social behaviour include: 
being loud and aggressive towards neighbours
repeatedly parking across a shared driveway; 
leaving rubbish in shared areas
intimidating behaviour including hate speech
invading privacy (such as peering into someone’s home)
causing, threatening to cause, or allowing another person to cause, substantial damage to the property

Learn more about dealing with anti-social behaviour from your tenant.was repeatedly late with their rent (at least five days late and at least 3 times in 90 days) and the landlord has served the required notices to remedy. 
Learn more about dealing with late rent payments, on the Tenancy Services website.Find out how to apply to the Tenancy Tribunal.More information about when you can end a periodic tenancy, and howFind out more about how a landlord can end a periodic tenancy, on the Aratohu Tenant Advocacy website. Fixed term tenancies and boarding house tenancies are differentLearn how you can end a fixed term tenancy before the end of the term.  
Find out how you can end a boarding house tenancy.
This information only applies to rental situations  covered by the Residential Tenancies Act (RTA). The RTA does not apply to flatting, private board and when the landlord or a member of their family lives in the house. Learn more about rental situations that are not covered by the RTA.  Print 