What are my rights if the landlord wants to sell the house I am renting? 

Your landlord must tell you they are selling the property, in writing
Your landlord must tell you in writing that they are selling the house you are renting either before or when they put the house on the market. They can do this before they put the house on the market, or at the same time.
Your landlord does not have to give you evidence that they are intending to sell the house.
Your landlord needs your permission to enter the house to take photos of the interior for advertising purposes
If your landlord wants to enter the property to take photos of the interior for advertising, they must first get your permission.
While you cannot unreasonably refuse access to the property for your landlord or potential buyers, but you can set reasonable conditions. For example, you can:
limit access to the property to certain times of the day and certain days of the week
refuse to allow open homes and auctions at the property
ask to be present during open homes and
insist that the property be shown by appointment only (instead of open homes).
The new owner can either require vacant possession or continue your tenancy
When the property is sold, either the tenancy continues or the new owner will have required vacant possession. Find out more about vacant possession). 
If the tenancy is to continue, the new owner must:
give you their name and contact details;
fill out a change of landlord form for MBIE’s Tenancy Services; and
contact the Bond Centre and ask them to update their records with the new landlord’s name.
Whether you can be made to leave depends on the type of tenancy you have 
Whether you can be made to leave when your landlord is selling the house you rent, depends on whether you have a fixed term or periodic tenancy.
If you are on a fixed-term tenancy, you are entitled to remain a tenant even after the property is sold
If you are on a fixed-term tenancy, you can remain a tenant even after the new owners have purchased the house - up until your fixed term tenancy renews.
Once your fixed-term tenancy ends you will need to negotiate with the new owners to try to renew your fixed-term tenancy.
Or you can agree to terminate the fixed-term tenancy early
Both you and the landlord can agree to end a fixed-term tenancy early if they want to sell the house. But you do not have to agree.
A fixed-term tenancy can only be ended early in certain situations.
Find out when a fixed-term tenancy can be ended.
If you are on a periodic tenancy your landlord can end your tenancy but they must give you the correct notice
With a periodic tenancy, if you landlord wants you to leave so they can sell the house, they must give you at least 90 days’ notice in writing. 
Learn more about notice to end a periodic tenancy.
If you suspect that your landlord is not really intending to sell the house, you can go to the Tenancy Tribunal
If you think that the landlord is not really intending to sell the house - but is saying that to end your tenancy - you can apply to the Tenancy Tribunal.
Learn more about what the Tenancy Tribunal does..
Find out how to apply to the Tenancy Tribunal.
More information about your rights when the rental is being sold
Learn more about what to expect when your landlord wants to sell the home  you are renting, on the Tenancy Services website  Print 