Can my landlord change the terms of the tenancy agreement? 

Your landlord is entitled to add conditions in your tenancy agreement, but only with your agreement.Types of conditions a landlord can addA landlord can add conditions to the tenancy agreement, about things that might cause damage or extra wear and tear to the house.Examples include:banning tenants from smoking in the house;
limiting how many people can live in the house;
stating where on the property your car cannot be parked;
whether pets are allowed;
not allowing meth to be used or manufactured in the house.
Conditions a landlord cannot addYour landlord is not allowed to add a condition that might be in breach of the law.If your landlord adds any condition that is inconsistent with the law, the condition cannot be enforced. An example of this is the condition that at the end of the tenancy the tenant must pay for the property to be professionally cleaned. Read more about unenforceable clauses.More information about adding conditions on a tenancy agreement, is on the Tenancy Services website.Added conditions or changes to the tenancy agreement must be in writing and signed by both partiesChanges to an existing tenancy agreementA landlord and tenant can agree to a change (variation) to an existing tenancy agreement. Any changes to an existing tenancy agreement must be recorded in writing and, and it must be signed by the landlord and tenant. This record must include:what the change is and when it takes effect
the landlords’ signature and the date they signed it
the tenant’s signature and the date they signed it.
Once it has been signed, the landlord should give the tenant a copy and it should be attached to their copy of the tenancy agreement.  Print 