What is a Healthy Homes Standards compliance statement?

This is a statement with specific information about how well a rental property complies with the Healthy Homes Standards. For most new or renewed residential tenancies from 1 December 2020 the landlord must provide a signed Healthy Homes Standards compliance statement.The compliance statement must cover all of the Healthy Homes StandardsThe compliance statement must say whether the rental property meets the standards for:insulation
heating
ventilation
moisture and drainage
draught-stopping.
If the property does not meet a standard, the statement must say:if the property is exempt from a standard 
that compliance is not yet required or
that the landlord intends to make the property meet a standard
Tenancy Services has a template for compliance statementsIf your landlord has used a Tenancy Services template to write the tenancy agreement, the compliance statement should be included in the template. Otherwise, they can use the compliance statement template.If your landlord did not give you a compliance statement when you started or renewed your tenancy, you can use this online tool to check whether they should have.The compliance statement must include any exemptions from the standardsIf the rental property is exempt from one or more of the Healthy Homes Standards, the compliance statement must include an explanation of the exemption. For example, insulation is compulsory in all residential rental properties where it is reasonably practicable to install it. However, your rental home might be exempt from the insulation requirement because the house is built on concrete slabs so underfloor insulation cannot be installed. More informationMore about Healthy Homes Standards compliance statements is on the Tenancy Services website.You can also read our information about the Healthy Homes Standards.  Print 