What are my obligations and responsibilities as a tenant?

As a tenant you are responsible for:paying the rent on time;
making sure the house or flat is used mainly for living purposes;
ensuring that the smoke alarms installed in the property have working batteries;
keeping the house or flat reasonably clean and tidy;
letting the landlord know as soon as damage is discovered or repairs are needed;
leaving when the tenancy comes to an end, as well as all of the things you need to do when you leave;
Unless the landlord agrees in writing to pay for them, you are obliged to pay the power, gas and telephone charges. You may also have to pay for your water usage. Read more about this.During your tenancy, you must not:intentionally or carelessly damage the premises;
tamper with the smoke alarms so that they are prevented from working; 
use the premises for any illegal activity;
disturb the neighbours;
have more people living in the premises than are specified in the tenancy agreement;
change the locks, attach fixtures or make any renovations, alterations or additions to the premises unless allowed in the tenancy agreement or with written permission from the landlord Read more about this.
More information about a tenant's obligations is on the Aratohu Tenant Advocacy website.The above information only applies to renting situations covered by the Residential Tenancies Act (RTA). Some types of situations where the RTA does not apply to includes flatting, private board and when the landlord is living in the house. Find out more about which renting situation are not covered by the RTA. Also, boarding house tenancies have slightly different rules.  Print 