What can I do if my tenant keeps being late with paying rent?

Talk to your tenant firstTalk to your tenant to ask if they realise they have missed rent payments. You can explain to them why it is important to pay rent on time and remind them that it is a breach of their tenancy agreement to not pay their rent on time.If your tenant has missed a rent payment, you can issue a notice that they have missed a paymentYou can give your tenant a Notice of overdue rent. This is an official way to tell our tenant they have missed a rent payment. You can also use it as a record, if you need to go to the Tenancy Tribunal.The written notice must include the amount of rent, the date it was due, and the tenant’s right to apply to the Tenancy Tribunal to challenge the notice.Download the notice  template from the Tenancy Services website.You can offer them the ability to pay you back in instalmentsIf your tenant cannot pay back the overdue rent in one payment, you could offer them the option of adding an extra amount to their weekly rent until it is paid back.If you offer this option to your tenant, you should do it in writing so that there is a record of your agreement about how they will pay the missing rent back.What you can do if you and your tenant cannot agreeIf you are not able to reach an agreement with your tenant you can:give them a 14 day notice to remedy, if the tenant owes less than 21 days rent. Download a notice template from the Tenancy Services website.
apply to the Tenancy Tribunal to end the tenancy, if the tenant owes more than 21 days rent – or has not paid back the rent they owe within a reasonable timeframe. Learn how to apply to the Tenancy Tribunal.
You can apply to the Tenancy Tribunal to end a periodic tenancy for repeated missed rentIf it is a periodic tenancy, you can ask the Tenancy Tribunal to terminate the tenancy if, on at least three occasions within a 90 day period, rent was not paid for at least five working days.You must have given your tenant written notice each time rent was unpaid for five working days, including the date the rent was due, and the tenant’s right to apply to the Tenancy Tribunal to challenge the notice.Within 28 days of the third notice, you can apply to the Tenancy Tribunal to have the tenancy terminated. You will need to show that the rent was due and remained unpaid for at least five working days each time, and that you gave the tenant three written notices in the 90 day period.Learn more about ending a tenancy for repeatedly missed rent, on the Tenancy Services NZ website (scroll down to "Terminating a periodic tenancy for repeated instances of missed rent").  Print 