What are the Healthy Homes Standards?

The Healthy Homes Standards cover heating, insulation, ventilation, moisture and drainage, and draught-stopping. These standards apply to residential rental properties, aiming to provide minimum standards for warmer, drier and healthier rental housing. They have been gradually taking effect from 1 July 2021. Tenancy agreements must include a compliance statementTenancy agreements for most new or renewed tenancies from 1 December 2020 must include a separately signed Healthy Homes Standards compliance statement. This is a statement from the landlord about how well the rental property meets the Healthy Homes Standards. Read more about Healthy Homes Standards compliance statements.The rental must have heating in the main living areaAll rental homes must have a fixed heater installed that can heat the main living area to 18°C.Read more about heating standards for rentals.The rental must have insulationAll rental homes must have insulation that meets the 2008 Building Code (or if there is existing insulation, it must be at least 120mm thick).The ceiling insulation can be under 120mm thick if it had the minimum R-value when it was installed, and the R-value has not worsened significantly. The R-value of insulation is a measure of how well it keeps heat in.Read more about insulation standards for rentals on the Tenancy Services website.The rental must have ventilationRental homes must have the right size extractor fans in kitchens and bathrooms. The living room, dining room, kitchen and bedrooms must each have at least one window, door or skylight that opens to the outside (and can be left open).Read more about the ventilation standards on the Tenancy Services website.The rental must have proper drainageRental homes must have enough drainage and guttering to prevent water from getting inside the building.If a rental home has an enclosed sub-floor space (for example, a basement), and it is feasible, the landlord must install a ground moisture barrier to stop moisture from rising into the home.Read more about moisture ingress and drainage standards for rentals on the Tenancy Services website.The landlord must ensure draughts are blockedRental homes must not have any unreasonable gaps or holes in walls, ceilings, windows, floors, and doors that cause noticeable draughts. The landlord must block unused chimneys and fireplaces and cannot use the age or condition of a home as a reason not to stop gaps.Read more about the draught-stopping standard on the Tenancy Services website.Deadlines for meeting the Healthy Homes StandardsFrom 1 July 2021, all boarding houses covered by the Residential Tenancies Act (RTA), must follow with the Healthy Home Standards. Find out what kinds of boarding houses are covered by the RTA 
Tenancies under Kainga Ora or registered Community Housing providers must follow the Healthy Home Standards by 1 July 2024.
For other types of private rental, use Tenancy Services’ decision tool to check when it must meet the standards.
All private rentals must comply with the standards from 1 July 2025.
More information about Healthy Homes StandardsVisit the Tenancy Services website to read more about the Healthy Homes Standards.What to do if your rental home does not meet the Healthy Homes StandardsLearn what you can do if the home you rent does not meet the standards.  Print 