What are my tenancy rights if I am renting a granny flat? 

“Granny flat” is a term normally used to describe a unit for living in, that is on the same site as the main house. It can be a separate building, or be physically attached to the main house. 
What your rights are, depend on whether your renting situation is covered by the Residential Tenancies Act (RTA).
If you are a member of the landlord’s family, you are not covered by the RTA
If you are a member of the landlord’s family then generally your renting situation is not covered by the RTA - unless you and the landlord agree in writing to be covered by the RTA. This applies whether you are renting a granny flat, a room in a house or apartment or the whole house/apartment. 
Find out about contracting into the RTA. 
The scenarios that follow assume you are not related to the landlord. They also assume you deal directly with your landlord – as opposed to being a flatmate of a person who has a renting agreement with their landlord. Find out the difference between a flatmate and a tenant.
If you have no access to the main house then you are covered by the RTA
If the landlord lives in the main house and the granny flat is not self-contained so that you have to share the bathroom and kitchen facilities in the main house with the landlord, then you are covered by the RTA. 
The granny flat must fulfil the legal requirements for a habitation. This includes being self-contained (having its own bathroom and kitchen facilities) and having a smoke alarm and insulation.
If the flat does not meet these requirements then you can apply to the Tenancy Tribunal to remedy this. 
If you only share a small space with the home owner, you might be covered by the RTA
If the landlord lives in the main house and the granny flat is not self-contained so that you must share the bathroom and kitchen facilities in the main house with your landlord, then you could be a tenant. This would mean you are covered by the RTA.
If you and your landlord do not agree on whether you are a tenant (covered by the RTA), either party can apply to the Tenancy Tribunal to decide whether in this situation you are a tenant or a private boarder.
If the granny flat and the main house are rented out separately, you are covered by the RTA
If the landlord has rented out the granny flat and the main house as separate tenancies, then you are covered by the RTA. 
The granny flat must be self-contained, otherwise your landlord would be in breach of their obligations under the RTA. In this situation you can apply to the Tenancy Tribunal for a remedy. 
If the granny flat and the main house are under a single tenancy agreement, you are covered by the RTA if your name is on the tenancy agreement 
If the landlord has rented out the granny flat and the main house under a single tenancy agreement, and you are named on the tenancy agreement, then you are covered by the RTA. 
The granny flat does not have to be self-contained, because you should have access to the facilities in the main house. (But the landlord must comply with any restrictions on the use of the granny flat, depending on any building consent, resource consent or local bylaws that apply). 
Information about your rights and obligations as a tenant
Learn more about which rental situations are covered by the RTA and which are not, on the Tenancy Services website.
Learn about: 
your rights as a tenant 
your obligations as a tenant
your landlords rights and
your landlord's obligations. 
Find out more about landlords’ obligations regarding buildings for residential tenancy, on the Tenancy website.  Print 