What is tenancy mediation?

Tenancy mediation is mediation through Tenancy ServicesTenancy mediation is often the first legal step taken to solve a dispute between landlords and tenants. The government subsidises the cost of tenancy mediation. Find out what mediation is.If a landlord or tenant applies to the Tenancy Tribunal to resolve a problem, the Tribunal may refer them to tenancy mediation if they have not already tried this.Mediation through Tenancy Services is also available for unit title disputes. Learn more about resolving unit title disputes.The aim of mediation is for the disputing parties to agree on a solution, with the help of a mediatorDuring mediation, the tenant and landlord discuss the issue under dispute. A trained mediator helps them do this. The aim is for the parties to agree on a solution. If both parties reach an agreement a Tribunal hearing will be unnecessary.You can do mediation over the phone or face to face.The mediator does not decide what will happen – this is for the landlord and tenant to decide together.Landlord or tenant can apply, online or using a printed formYou  can apply for mediation whether you are the tenant or the landlord. It costs around $20.You can apply for tenancy mediation online or using a printed form.Learn how to apply for tenancy mediation online.If you prefer, you can get a free printed application form:ask your local CAB or Community Law Centre if they have a printed form
call Tenancy Services on 0800 836 262 (0800 TENANCY) and ask them to post a form to you
order a printed form online, using the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment’s resource ordering site.
Watch a video about how to applying for tenancy mediation.Tenancy Services will tell you if mediation will be by telephone or in personWhen Tenancy Services receives your application, they will tell you whether you need to prepare for telephone mediation or in-person mediation.Learn more about how to prepare for mediation, on the Tenancy Services website.If you reach an agreement during mediation, the mediator records it in writingIf you reach an agreement, usually the mediator will write down what you agreed to as a “mediated order” and sign it, and usually the tenant and landlord also sign. The mediated order is binding (you have to do what you agreed to).Watch a video about what happens during tenancy mediation.Learn more about tenancy mediation, on the Tenancy Services website.Tenancy mediation is not for disputes between flatmatesFind out how to resolve disputes between:flatmates
landlords and property managers
General mediation (mediation not involving Tenancy Services) can also help, but it will cost more as the government does not subsidise it.  Print 