What happens if I can't pay my rent?

If you are going to have problems with paying your rent on time it is worth talking to your landlord about it. They may agree to a repayment plan that you can afford, so that you can stay in your home. If you are able to agree to a repayment plan your landlord may want to formalise the agreement through FastTrack Resolution.  Non-payment of rent makes you in breach of the Residential Tenancies Act and your tenancy agreement. As soon as your rent is just one day overdue, the landlord can give you a 14-day notice to remedy. This notice gives you 14 days to remedy the situation (eg by paying the overdue amount). If you are more than 21 days behind in rent, or haven’t sorted anything out after getting the 14-day notice to remedy, the landlord can apply to the Tenancy Tribunal to order you to pay the overdue rent. Your landlord could also apply for a termination order, ending the tenancy and forcing you to vacate the property.From 11 February 2021, if your landlord has had to give you notice on three separate occasions within a 90-day period, of your rent being at least five working days late, they can apply to the Tenancy Tribunal for termination of your tenancy. Read more about how tenancies can be terminated.If you have regular problems paying your rent, look at getting some help with budgeting and finding out whether you are eligible for an accommodation supplement or other financial assistance. If it is a one-off problem you should talk to your landlord as soon as possible.More information for tenants and landlords about overdue rent and 14-day notices to remedy is on the Tenancy Services website. We also have information on the Aratohu Tenant Advocacy website.  Print 