What are the insulation requirements for rental homes?







Insulation requirements for private rentals (including council social housing), boarding houses, Kāinga Ora and other government-registered social housing, have been phased in since 2016. Note that the latest changes took effect from 1 July 2021.
All tenancy agreements signed on or after 1 July 2016 must include in the tenancy agreement a statement about the insulation in the rental property. The tenancy agreement template on the Tenancy Services website includes a section for this statement.
From 1 July 2019
Since 1 July 2019 it has been mandatory for all rental homes that are covered by the Residential Tenancies Act (RTA), to have ceiling and underfloor insulation that meets specific standards. 
There is an exception for buildings where it is not practical to install insulation, due to their physical design or structure. In this case the landlord can delay installing insulation in the ceiling or underfloor spaces until access to them is possible (eg, when the landlord makes renovations to the house). Read more about the exceptions.
For all new or renewed tenancies signed on or after 1 December 2020 landlords must include a separately signed Health Homes compliance statement with the tenancy agreements.
Insulation requirement from 1 July 2021
From 1 July 2021 private landlords must ensure their rental property complies with the healthy homes standards within 90 days of a new or renewed tenancy. This includes meeting the insulation standard.
All boarding houses must comply with the healthy homes standards from this date.
Insulations requirements from 1 July 2023
From 1 July 2023, all Kāinga Ora houses and registered Community Housing Provider houses must comply with the healthy homes standards.
Insulation requirements from 1 July 2024
From 1 July 2024, all rental homes must comply with the Healthy Homes Standards, including the insulation standards.
The Healthy Homes Standards do not apply to rental properties that are not covered by the Residential Tenancies Act (RTA) - for example, private board and when the landlord or a member of their family is living in the house. Find out which rental situations are not covered by the RTA.





  Print 