My tenant’s fixed term tenancy is due to end. What do I need to do if I want them to leave?

What you need to do will depend on when the tenancy agreement was signed.  Fixed term tenancy agreements signed before 11 February 2021  If the term of the tenancy is for no more than 90 days, then at the end of this period the tenancy ends (the end date should be specified in the tenancy agreement) and the tenant has to leave the property by that date.  If the fixed term is for longer than 90 days, then at the end of this period the tenancy automatically becomes a periodic tenancy.  If either the landlord or the tenant does not want the fixed term tenancy to roll over onto a periodic tenancy ie, want the tenant to end at the end of the fixed term, they will have to give notice at least 21 days and up to 90 days before the end of the fixed term.  Fixed term tenancy agreements signed on or after 11 February 2021  If the term of the tenancy is for longer than 90 days, the fixed term tenancy will automatically become a periodic tenancy, unless the tenant gives 28 days notice before the fixed term expires. A landlord can only prevent a fixed term tenancy from automatically becoming a periodic tenancy if the termination grounds used for periodic tenancies apply   If the term of the tenancy is for no more than 90 days (ie, a short-term tenancy), the tenancy will end at the date specified in the tenancy agreement. If your tenants' short-term tenancy is extended or renewed, and it makes the entire tenancy longer than 90 days, the new rules about giving notice will apply. More information is on the Tenancy Services website.   Print 