When can a landlord end a periodic tenancy and how much notice must they give?

How much notice your landlord must give depends on their reason for ending the periodic tenancy
Your landlord can only end a periodic tenancy if they have a good reason for it (see below). How much notice your landlord must give to end it depends on why your landlord is ending the tenancy.
When the landlord can end a periodic tenancy with 63 days' notice
Your landlord can end a periodic tenancy by giving 63 days’ notice if:
they, or a member of their family, want to move in. They must actually move in within 90 days of the end of the tenancy and live there for 90 days.
The tenancy agreement states that the property is for housing the landlord's employees, and another employee is to take over the tenancy.
When the landlord can end a periodic tenancy with 90 days' notice
The landlord can end a periodic tenancy by giving 90 days’ notice in the following circumstances:
They are putting the property on the market within 90 days of the tenancy ending.
They have sold the property, and one condition of the sale is that the property be vacant.
The landlord is not the owner of the property and their interest in the property ends. (An example is if a landlord leases an apartment building from the building owner for three years, and lets out apartments to tenants. If the lease is not renewed after three years, then the landlord's interest in the property ends - and they can end the apartment tenancies with 90 days' notice).
The tenancy agreement says that the landlord took ownership of the property so they could use the land for business purposes, and the property must have no residential tenants.
The landlord will convert the property into commercial premises for 90 days or longer.
The premises are to be demolished, or so extensively redeveloped or altered that it would be unpractical for the tenancy to continue. The landlord must take material steps towards this work within 90 days.
If you think your landlord has not provided a justified reason for the notice, or they have not followed due process, you can challenge the notice at the Tenancy Tribunal.
Find out how to apply to the Tenancy Tribunal.
A landlord can end a tenancy with 14 days' notice, if the tenant physically assaulted them
If you physically assault your landlord, they can give you 14 days' written notice end the tenancy in 14 days. They do not need to apply to the Tenancy Tribunal. 
Learn more about ending a tenancy because of physical assault by the tenant. 
A landlord can apply to the Tenancy Tribunal to end a tenancy
Your landlord can apply to the Tenancy Tribunal to end the tenancy if you:
are late paying your rent three times in a 90-day period - this applies to periodic tenancies  (learn more about dealing with overdue rent, on the Tenancy Services website)
engage in antisocial behaviour three times in a 90-day period - this applies to period tenancies (find out more about anti-social behaviour during tenancy)
Other types of tenancies
Find out about when a landlord can end a:
fixed-term tenancy early.
boarding house tenancy. 
social housing tenancy. 
More information about when landlords can end a tenancy
Learn more about ending a tenancy, on the Tenancy Services website.
The information in this article only applies to rental situations covered by the Residential Tenancies Act (RTA). For example, the RTA does not apply to flatting and private board (when the landlord lives in the house with you). Find out more about which renting situation are not covered by the RTA.  Print 