Does my landlord have the right to end my tenancy because my dog barked at them during an inspection? 

It will depend on what type of tenancy you have, and the level of threat that the landlord experiences.Periodic tenancy If your landlord gave you notice to end your tenancy before 11 February 2021, they would have been entitled to do this as long as they gave you the correct amount of notice. From 11 February 2021, a landlord can only end a periodic tenancy on certain grounds, through giving the correct amount of notice.   Anti-social behaviour A landlord can apply to the Tenancy Tribunal to end a periodic tenancy if they have issued three notices to the tenant for anti-social behaviour over a 90-day period. This means that:there have been three separate instances of anti-social behaviour during the 90-day period;
For each instance, the landlord has given the tenant a written notice; and
the landlord has made an application to the Tenancy Tribunal no more than 28 days after they gave the third notice.
If the landlord has applied to the Tenancy Tribunal for a termination notice, you can appear at the Tenancy Tribunal to present your side of the story. If you need help preparing to appear at the Tenancy Tribunal contact your local CAB.Fixed term tenancyA fixed term tenancy cannot normally be ended early.However, your landlord can apply to the Tenancy Tribunal to end the tenancy early if:you have caused or threatened to cause substantial damage to the property;
you have assaulted or threatened to assault: the landlord, a member of the landlord’s family, anyone acting as the landlord’s agent; your neighbours; any other people occupying the rental property;
you have caused or allowed another person to substantially damage or threaten to damage the premises.
This also applies to periodic tenancies and boarding house tenancies.You can read more about ending a tenancy via a Tenancy Tribunal application, on the Aratohu Tenant Advocacy website.Decision toolYou can use the decision tool on the Tenancy Services website to help you work out what a landlord’s options are depending on the type of tenancy and the type of behaviour.  Print 