How do I apply for a Tenancy Tribunal rehearing?

If you disagree with the decision made at a Tenancy Tribunal hearing, you can apply for a rehearing. But you cannot apply for a rehearing simply because you do not like a Tenancy Tribunal decision.
You can apply for a rehearing if you think the decision was substantially wrong or a miscarriage of justice has occurred or is likely to occur.
For example, you might apply for a rehearing if:
you did not get a letter notifying you of the hearing date, so you missed it
the adjudicator admitted or rejected evidence when they should not have or
you have new evidence that is relevant to the case.
If you want to apply for a rehearing you must do it within five days of the decision
You need to apply for a rehearing within five working days after the Tenancy Tribunal has issued their decision. You apply for a rehearing at the District Court where the Tenancy Tribunal hearing took place.
Download the application form for a rehearing, from the Ministry of Justice website (PDF, 139KB).
You may also need to apply for a stay of enforcement proceedings
If you apply for a rehearing or an appeal, this does not stop the Tenancy Tribunal order from being enforced.
Find out how to apply for a stay of enforcement proceedings, if you are applying for a rehearing.
More information about rehearings
Find out more about applying for a rehearing, an appeal or a stay of enforcement proceedings, on the following websites:
Aratohu Tenant Advocate
Tenancy Services
Ministry of Justice
  Print 