My tenancy agreement says I have to get the flat professionally cleaned when I leave. Is this legal?

You only have to leave the rental clean and tidy when you leaveWhen your tenancy ends, you have to leave the property in a reasonably clean and tidy state and remove any rubbish. If you do not, your landlord can deduct bond money for cleaning costs.You do not have to pay for a professional cleaner to clean the rental, or make the property immaculate.Learn about bond.Your landlord must deal with wear and tear on the propertyYour landlord cannot deduct (take) from your bond money for normal wear and tear to the rental property. Normal wear and tear includes:minor stains on carpets from you walking on it
door handles and window latches breaking after normal use
worn carpet or other flooring
stove elements not working after normal use
Find out about fair wear and tear, on the Aratohu Tenant Advocacy website.Your tenancy agreement might say you have to pay for professional cleaning - but the Tenancy Tribunal would not enforce itIf your tenancy agreement has a clause saying you must pay for professional cleaning when you leave, you do not have to pay it. If you refuse to pay your landlord could apply to the Tenancy Tribunal - the Tenancy Tribunal will not enforce it. This also applies if your tenancy agreement says the landlord can deduct money from your bond when you leave, to pay for professional cleaning. Learn more about unenforceable tenancy agreement clauses, on the Tenancy Services website.You can apply to the Tenancy Tribunal to resolve a disputeIf you and your landlord had a dispute that you cannot resolve, either of you can apply to the Tenancy Tribunal.Apply to the Tenancy Tribunal if:you disagree on whether you left the rental reasonably clean and tidy
you disagree over whether particular damage is fair wear and tear (so not your responsibility)
your landlord deducted money from the bond for professional cleaning, after you left the property in a reasonably clean and tidy condition.
Learn how to apply to the Tenancy Tribunal.Read about ways to resolve disputes with your landlord.This information only applies if your renting situation is covered by the Residential Tenancies Act (RTA). For example, the RTA does not apply to flatting, private board and when the landlord is living in the house. Learn more about which renting situation are not covered by the RTA.  Print 