I can’t make the Tenancy Tribunal hearing – can I get it postponed?

Whether you can get a Tenancy Tribunal hearing postponed depends on whether you are the applicant (the one who made the application to the Tenancy Tribunal) or the other party:If you are the applicantIf you are the applicant, you can ask for the hearing to be postponed by contacting the case coordinator (the contact details will be on the letter you receive notifying you of the hearing date).If you are the other partyIf you are not the applicant then you will only be able to get a postponement of the hearing if the applicant agrees to it.If the hearing date is more than five days away you can contact the case coordinator to make your request to postpone. If it is within five days of the hearing date you need to contact the court. The case coordinator or the court will ask the applicant if they agree to a new hearing date. If the applicant does not agree to postponement, you can write to the court to ask for a postponement, stressing that you fully intend to dispute the matter.Other optionsThere are alternatives to getting a postponement - contact Tenancy Services about these:If you will be out of the area on the day, you can ask to attend via teleconference.
You can have a representative attend the hearing on your behalf. 
More information about issues with attending a Tenancy Tribunal hearing is on the Aratohu Tenant Advocacy website.If you have questions before the hearingContact the Ministry of Justice to discuss anything to do with the hearing if 5 working days or less remain until it takes place. Contact Tenancy Services if you need help before that.The use of the Tenancy Tribunal to resolve disputes only applies to renting situations covered by the Residential Tenancies Act (RTA), as well as unit title disputes. Some types of situations where the RTA does not apply to includes flatting, private board and when the landlord is living in the house. Find out more about which renting situation are not covered by the RTA.   Print 