Which kinds of renting situations are not covered by the Residential Tenancies Act? 

The Residential Tenancies Act (the RTA) covers residential renting arrangements between landlord and tenant.
If you are not named on the tenancy agreement then you are not covered by the RTA
If you sharing a rental property with flatmates but you are not named on the tenancy agreement, then your renting agreement is with the head flatmate (or head tenant who is named on the tenancy agreement and who is in charge of collecting and refunding bond and rent for the flat).
Learn about the difference between a tenant and a flatmate.
The RTA does not cover private board
If you are boarding privately with your landlord, then your renting situation is not covered by the RTA.
For example, your landlord might decide to rent out their spare bedroom to you, to help them pay the mortgage on the house.
Learn more about your rights when living in a private boarding situation.
If a tenant is a member of the landlord’s family, the renting situation is not covered by the RTA
If you or another of the tenants is a member of your landlord's family, the RTA does not cover your renting situation. You are effectively a private boarder, not a tenant.
Some types of student accommodation are not covered by the RTA
The RTA does not apply to some types of student accommodation:
School hostels – boarding establishments used mainly or solely to accommodate students enrolled at a registered school.
rental premises that are:
only available for tertiary students and
owned by a tertiary education provider, or an accommodation provider that has a contract with a tertiary education provider to provider accommodation to their students.

View the RTA legislation regarding accommodation for tertiary students.
Holiday accommodation is not covered by the RTA
The RTA does not cover short stays in holiday homes, hotels and motels. These are places intended for short stays – generally less than four weeks.
Learn about your rights when you stay in holiday accommodation.
The RTA does also not cover:
hospitals and rest-homes
commercial tenancies (renting a building or land for business purposes)
short-term emergency housing, unless it was agreed that you would stay for longer than 28 days
if you only rent the land, and put your own shelter on it (for example a caravan or tent)
in a campground or motor camp, unless you and the operator agreed that you would stay for more than 50 days.
You and your landlord can contract into the RTA
Learn about what it means to contract into the RTA.
If your renting situation is not covered by the RTA, check the agreement you signed with the accommodation provider
If the RTA does not apply to your renting situation, what your rights and obligations are depends on what is in the agreement you signed with the accommodation provider.
If you have no written agreement, your rights and obligations are what you agreed to verbally.
If your renting situation is not covered by the RTA, apply to the Disputes Tribunal to resolve disputes
If you have a dispute with the accommodation provider that you cannot resolve informally, you can make a claim at the Disputes Tribunal.
Find out how to make a claim at the Disputes Tribunal.
More information about renting situations the RTA does not cover
More information about renting situations not covered by the Residential Tenancies Act, is on the following websites:
Tenancy Services
Aratohu Tenant Advocacy.
  Print 