My tenant left their belongings behind when the tenancy ended. What should I do with them?

As the landlord you must follow certain rules when a tenant moves out without taking all of their possessions with them.You can dispose of perishables (such as food).You need to try to contact the ex-tenant and agree on a reasonable amount of time for them to retrieve their belongings.If you aren’t able to contact them, or if they don’t retrieve their belongings within the agreed time, you have two options:Apply to the Tenancy Tribunal for an order that tells you what to do with the belongings. This can include disposing of them, returning them to the ex-tenant or selling them.
Store, sell or dispose of them, as described below.
Personal documentsIf the belongings include personal documents you must store them securely, and if they aren’t claimed after 35 days you must give them to the Police.Property (not personal documents) worth less than the cost of storing, transporting and selling themIf the belongings are not personal documents and they are worth less than the cost of storing, transporting and selling them, you can dispose of them.Property worth more than the cost of storing, transporting and selling themIf the belongings (other than personal documents) are worth more than the cost of storing, transporting and selling them, then you must store them securely for at least 35 days.After 35 days you can either keep them in storage in case the ex-tenant claims them, or sell them.If you sell the belongings you have to send the money to Tenancy Services. You can deduct the storage, transportation and selling costs first. The ex-tenant has one year to claim this money from Tenancy Services.If ex-tenant claims their property while it is in storage you can claim the storage cost from them.The process is summed up by this flowchart.More information is on the Tenancy Services website.   Print 