I am flatting with other people and they are kicking me out. Can they do this?

It depends on whether you are a tenantWhether the people you flat with can make you leave the rental property, depends on whether you are a tenant.You are a tenant if you signed the tenancy agreement for the rental property. Find out more about the difference between flatmate, tenant and boarder. Your flatmates cannot make you leave if you are a tenantIf you are a tenant, your flatmates cannot make you leave - even if they are also tenants. This is because, as a tenant, you have a legal right to remain in the rental property in accordance with your tenancy agreement.Learn what is involved in getting you to leave the flat if you are a tenant.If you are not a tenant, your flatmates who are tenants can make you leaveIf you did not sign the tenancy agreement then you are a flatmate and have fewer rights in this situation.Your flatmates who are tenants, have the right to ask you (who is not a tenant) to leave the flat.For example, a tenant might ask you (a flatmate) to leave because:  you have been verbally abusive to your flatmates and are causing problems in general
They need another room in the house for their child or family member
You have been unreliable with paying your share of the rent and bills.  
If you are not a tenant, your tenant flatmates must give you reasonable notice to leaveYour flatmates who are tenants must give you reasonable notice if they want you to leave. Find out how much notice is reasonable.If you do not leave by the end of the notice period, the tenants could serve you with a trespass notice.Find out how trespass notices work.You can apply to the Disputes Tribunal if you do not agree to leaveIf you disagree with the tenant asking you to leave, you can take the matter to the Disputes Tribunal.Learn how to apply to the Disputes Tribunal.  Print 