What are my tenancy rights during the Covid-19 pandemic?

Even in a pandemic, your tenancy rights and obligations under the Residential Tenancies Act still apply.Self-isolationIf you are self-isolating, you should tell the people living with you so they can take precautions to protect themselves.You do not have to tell your landlord you are self-isolating or are unwell, unless they are visiting (for example, to do repairs or a property inspection).If you get Covid-19 around the time you are moving to a new tenancy, you may have to postpone your move. Talk to your current landlord about postponing the end of your old tenancy, and to your new landlord about postponing the start of your new tenancy.Discrimination because you have a higher Covid-19 risk or have Covid-19If you have Covid-19 or are at high risk, your flatmates or landlord could become hostile towards you. This might happen if, for example: you are a health professional
you have developed symptoms and your landlord or flatmates perceive that as a risk to their health
they know you were not vaccinated against Covid-19. 
Discriminating against you because of your health or disability is unlawful under the Residential Tenancy Act because it is a breach of the Human Rights Act. If you think you have been discriminated against in your tenancy you can apply to either the Human Rights Commission or the Tenancy Tribunal.  Landlords do not have the right to know whether their tenants, or prospective tenants, are vaccinated. Read more about your privacy rights as a tenant.If a landlord starting a new tenancy only chooses vaccinated tenants, they would be in breach of the Human Rights Act.If you are a tenant, your landlord cannot end your tenancy on the grounds that you:are not vaccinated
are otherwise at higher Covid-19 risk or
have tested positive for Covid-19.
If you are not a tenant you do not have protection under the Residential Tenancies Act, but you still have rights under the Privacy Act and the Human Rights Act. Read more about this.Property inspectionsYou cannot unreasonably refuse your landlord access to the property to do an inspection. However, you can talk to your landlord to agree on Covid-19 safety measures.Your landlord can ask to do a virtual property inspection (rather than in person), but you do not have to agree to it.Disputes If you and your landlord are in dispute, the usual dispute resolution process still applies.Mediation and Tenancy Tribunal hearings can take place in person, by teleconference and phone.You may need to wear a face covering at an in-person Tenancy Tribunal hearing. Read more about Tenancy Tribunal under the Covid-19 Protection Framework. More informationThe Tenancy Services website has more Covid-19 information for tenants and landlords.  Print 