What happens at a Tenancy Tribunal hearing?

The Tenancy Tribunal can help with disputes between a tenant and their landlordIf you and your landlord or tenant have a dispute, and you cannot resolve it yourselves or through tenancy mediation, either party can apply to the Tenancy Tribunal to resolve it.Watch a video about the Tenancy Tribunal, on the Tenancy Services website.Learn how to apply to the Tenancy Tribunal.You need to prepare for your Tenancy Tribunal hearingYou may be questioned by the adjudicator and the other party. So, it is a good idea to write down all the facts so you can present them clearly and logically.Gather evidence to support your claim – for example, quotes and invoices from tradespeople, inspection reports, photos, correspondence (letters, texts and emails), receipts or bank statements.Watch a video about preparing for a Tenancy Tribunal hearing.These are the people at a Tenancy Tribunal hearingA Tenancy Tribunal hearing takes place before an adjudicator. An adjudicator is a person whose role is to hear both sides and make a final decision about your case.You and the other party in the dispute need to be at the hearing. If you do not attend, your view will not be heard.Lawyers can only attend in special circumstances. For example, you can bring in your lawyer if:the dispute is for more than $6,000
the other party agrees or the Tribunal allows it, or
the other party has a lawyer representing them.
Either party can bring in witnesses to speak in support of you. The hearing is usually open to the public.The adjudicator listens to both sides and makes a decisionYou can only talk about the issue in the Tenancy Tribunal application. (If you want to discuss another issue, you will need to make a separate application.) Both sides get to tell their side of the story and answer the adjudicator’s questions.Watch a video about attending a Tenancy Tribunal hearing.When the adjudicator has made a decision they will write it down as a Tribunal order. Often you will get this decision straight away, but it might be sent out afterwards.Find out what decisions the adjudicator can make.The order is legally binding (both parties have to obey it).If the order is not followed then either party can apply for it to be enforced through the District Court.Learn more about enforcing a Tenancy Tribunal order.More information about Tenancy Tribunal hearingsLearn more about Tenancy Tribunal hearings on the: Tenancy Services website  
Aratohu Tenant Advocacy website.
The Tenancy Tribunal only hears disputes in renting situations covered by the Residential Tenancies Act (RTA), or for unit title disputes. For example, the RTA does not apply to flatting, private board or when the landlord is living in the house. Find out more about which renting situation are not covered by the RTA.    Print 