What rights do I have as a boarding house landlord?

If you are the landlord of a boarding house covered by the Residential Tenancies Act you have rights and obligations under the Act.
Learn about what kinds of boarding houses are covered by the Residential Tenancies Act.
You have the right to ask your tenant to pay a bond
You can ask the tenant to pay bond up to the equivalent of 4 weeks rent. 
You must lodge the bond with Tenancy Services within 23 working days, (unless the bond is the equivalent to one week’s rent or less).
Find out more about what you must do with the bond.
You have the right to add extra conditions to the tenancy agreement
You can add conditions to the tenancy agreement, if they are to do with damage or wear and tear to the building.
Find out about conditions you can add to the tenancy agreement.
You cannot add conditions that breach the law. Even if you add them, and your tenants sign the agreement, they are unenforceable.
Learn about unenforceable conditions, on the Aratohu Tenant Advocate website.
You can enter your tenant’s room, if you give the correct notice
You can enter a tenant’s room for a reason other than an inspection, as long as you give at least 24 hours’ notice.
You can enter their room without notice in some situations – for example, if you believe there is a serious risk to life or property, and you need to enter the room to reduce or remove that risk.
Find out more about your right to enter your tenant’s room, on the Tenancy Services website.
You have the right to enter the common areas at any time.
More information about your rights
Learn more about your rights as a boarding house landlord on the Tenancy Services website.    Print 