What happens after I make an application to the Tenancy Tribunal?

Find out how to make an application to the Tenancy Tribunal to resolve a tenant – landlord dispute.
The Tenancy Tribunal will refer both parties to mediation, if you have not already tried it
When the Tenancy Tribunal receives your application, they will first refer you and the other party in the dispute to mediation – unless you have already tried this.
Learn about tenancy mediation.
If you do mediation and reach an agreement, you will receive a record of the agreement
If you and the other party reach an agreement during mediation, the agreement will be recorded as a mediated order.
Both parties will receive a copy, and so will the Tenancy Tribunal.
The Tenancy Tribunal will “seal” the mediator’s order, which means the order can be enforced.
Learn how a mediator's order can be enforced.
Find out more about what happens after mediation.
If you do not reach an agreement during mediation, there will be a Tenancy Tribunal hearing
If the matter is not resolved through mediation, a hearing will be scheduled at a local courthouse. Both parties will receive a notification of the hearing (telling you, the date, time and location of the hearing, for example).
Find out how long it takes for a hearing to be scheduled.
Learn what happens at a Tenancy Tribunal hearing.
While you wait for the hearing, you can prepare for it by:
getting copies of the supporting evidence and
finding a support person to accompany you to the hearing (if you want one).
  Print 