A flatmate left some of their stuff behind and owes us rent. Can we sell their stuff?

If you were in dispute about the money owed, you can make a claim with the Disputes Tribunal. The Disputes Tribunal can decide that you are allowed to sell your ex-flatmate’s property in order to pay back the debt.If the ex-flatmate does not dispute the debt but simply refuses to pay it, then the Disputes Tribunal will not be able to help. You may have to apply to the District Court. Read more about options to recover debt. If your former flatmate's property has been abandoned but they do not owe you any money, you must make a reasonable attempt to locate them. If you manage to find the former flatmate and they agree to collect their things, you are obliged to take reasonable steps to look after their property in the meantime.If the former flatmate fails to collect their belongings as promised, you can then make a claim to the Disputes Tribunal to dispose of the property (for example). If the flatmate was named on the tenancy agreement, you could talk to your landlord about applying to the Tenancy Tribunal for an order allowing the landlord to dispose of the goods.If you cannot locate the former flatmate, then you can sell the property, as it is accepted that you cannot store the property indefinitely. If you are able to contact the former flatmate after the sale, you should give them the proceeds of the sale minus the money owed and any storage expenses and associated costs.You’ll find information about the landlord’s rights when a tenant leaves their possessions behind, on the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment's Tenancy Services website.It’s a good idea to document what you do regarding the abandoned goods, in case there is a dispute about it later.  Print 