We are four flatmates who are all named on the tenancy agreement and one is a problem. Can the rest of us make the problem flatmate leave?

If the problem tenant is abusive and you do not feel safe in the same house with them, contact the Police (call 111 if it is an emergency, or 105 if it is not).Try to have a calm discussion with your fellow tenants, to see if you can resolve the issues together. It may be possible to work through the problems and agree on a remedy that everyone is happy with.If this does not succeed then your options for action will depend on whether you have a periodic tenancy or a fixed-term tenancy, and what the actual problem is with the unwanted co-tenant.If all of you are named on the tenancy agreement then none of you has the right to ask another to leave the tenancy. (A tenant is entitled to require a flatmate who is not a tenant to leave). It is also not appropriate for you to issue a trespass notice to a fellow a tenant, because as a tenant they are legally entitled to remain on the premises.One of the tenants could make at claim at the Disputes Tribunal to resolve the matter. However, while the Disputes Tribunal can issue a decision, they cannot enforce it (you would have to make an application to the District Court to enforce it).Read more about dealing with breaches of tenant and landlord obligations.Probably the easiest way to deal with this situation is for you and your fellow tenants to simply end the tenancy and start a new one without the problem person. However,  it is not easy to end a fixed-term tenancy early.Be aware that if the problem tenant owes their share of the rent or has caused damage to the property, the remaining tenants can be liable for covering this.   Print 