How do I apply to the Tenancy Tribunal using a printed form?

You can apply with the printed form as long as it is the latest version
If you want to apply using a printed application form, make sure you have the latest version of the form.
It is not possible to download the form, but you can get printed application forms, for free, in the following ways:
Order forms online to be sent to you, using the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment (select "Tenancy Services", then "Forms").
Call Tenancy Services (0800 836 262) to have forms posted to you.
Check with your local CAB or Community Law Centre, as they might have some.
You need to pay the application fee before you submit your printed application
You can pay for your paper application by:
EFTPOS or cash at any Westpac bank or
phone or online bank transfer to MBIE Dispute Resolution (include your surname and initials and the application reference number on your paper application form):
Account name: MBIE Dispute Resolution Account number: 03-0049-0001346-00 Reference: the application reference number on your application form) Particulars: Your initials.
Until 1 February 2024, you can also pay by EFTPOS at the Tenancy Services offices in Auckland, Manukau, Hamilton, Wellington and Christchurch (the addresses are on the Tenancy Services website). You need to make an appointment first to visit a Tenancy Services office.
Where to send your printed application
When you have paid the application fee, send your completed application form and any supporting documents to:
Tenancy Services
PO Box 76469 Manukau 2241
More information about making an application to the Tenancy Tribunal
Learn more about applying to the Tenancy Tribunal on the following websites:
 Tenancy Services 
Aratohu Tenant Advocacy.
If you need help with your application you can contact your local CAB or call Tenancy Services on 0800 TENANCY (0800 83 62 62).
The above information only applies to renting situations covered by the Residential Tenancies Act (RTA), as well as unit title disputes. Find out more about which renting situation are not covered by the RTA.   Print 