Who is liable for fixing damage to the rental property?

Whether the tenant or the landlord is liable for the cost of repairing damage to a rental property depends on whether the damage is caused by:
an accident
a natural disaster
normal wear and tear
by the tenant, intentionally or through carelessness.
It will also depend on whether the type of damage is covered by the landlord’s insurance.
If a tenant or their guest intentionally damages the property, they are liable
If a tenant or their guest intentionally damages the property, or damage is caused as a result of an imprison-able offence, then the tenant is responsible for repairing the damage or paying the cost of repair or replacement.
In this situation either the landlord or the landlord's insurer could pursue the tenant for the costs.
If a tenant or their guest causes damage through neglect or carelessness, they are liable
If a tenant or their guest, carelessly damages the property, then the tenant is liable for up to four weeks’ rent or the amount of the the landlord’s insurance excess (if there is any insurance excess) – whichever is the lesser amount.
For a tenant paying income-related rent, four weeks' rent means four weeks' market rent.
Learn more about income-related rent.
Find out more about insurance excess.
If the damage was not caused intentionally or because of carelessness then the landlord must pay for the repairs
If damage is neither careless nor intentional, and the tenant can prove this, the tenant is not liable for the cost of repairing damage.
The landlord (or their insurer) must pay to repair damage caused by a natural disaster
The tenant is also not liable for the cost of repairing damage resulting from natural disasters such as fire, flood, explosion, lightning, storm, earthquake or volcanic activity.
In this situation, the landlord (or their insurer) will have to pay.
The landlord is liable for repairs to damage caused by normal wear and tear 
If there is damage to the property or chattels that can be considered “fair” wear and tear, then it is the responsibility of the landlord to fix this.
Find out what is considered normal wear and tear, on the Tenancy Services website.
If the tenant and landlord disagree on who is responsible, either can apply to the Tenancy Tribunal
If the landlord and tenant cannot agree over who is responsible for the damage, either party can apply to the Tenancy Tribunal for a decision.
Learn how to apply to the Tenancy Tribunal.
More information about liability for repairs
Learn more about who is liable for repairing damage to a rental property, on the Tenancy website.  Print 