My rental home does not meet the Healthy Homes Standards - what can I do?

The Healthy Homes Standards are minimum standards for residential tenancies, and cover heating, insulation, ventilation, moisture and drainage, and draught-stopping. Read more about Healthy Homes Standards.Check the Healthy Homes Standards compliance statementCheck and see if there is a Healthy Homes Standards compliance statement attached to your tenancy agreement. It will have your landlord’s statements about whether the rental property complies with the some or all of the Healthy Homes Standards. It should also state whether the property is exempt from a standard and why (for example, compliance with a standard might not yet be required).Read more about Healthy Homes Standards compliance statement.What if the rental property does not comply (and is not exempt)?If your rented home does not meet the Healthy Homes Standards, and it is not exempt from them, your landlord could be in breach of the Residential Tenancies Act. Talk to your landlord about it. If they will not commit to making the home meet the standards (for example, installing insulation), or you have waited too long for them to do so, you can give your landlord a 14-day notice to remedy. If they have not made the changes to make your home meet the standards, or at least made reasonable progress towards this, you can apply to the Tenancy Tribunal for a remedy.Read more about resolving disputes between landlord and tenant. Minimum standards if the Healthy Homes Standards do not yet applyEven if the Healthy Homes Standards do not yet apply to your rental home, your landlord is responsible for providing you with a healthy rental property that is free from damp and mould.More information about dealing with unhealthy rental housing is on the Aratohu Tenant Advocacy website. Serious breaches of the Residential Tenancies ActIf there are serious, ongoing problems with the rental property that are affecting your health, you can contact the Tenancy Services Compliance and Investigations Team online. More information about the Compliance and Investigations Team is on the Tenancy Services website.   Print 