What happens to bond money that flatmates pay to tenant flatmates?  

If you are joining a flat and are not named on the tenancy agreement, your tenant flatmates may ask you to pay a bond. Learn what a bond is.Find out what should be in a tenancy agreement.If you are not a tenant, you pay your bond to the head tenantIf you are a flatmate but not named on the tenancy agreement, you pay your bond money to the head tenant (tenant flatmate), not to the landlord or Tenancy Services. The head tenant is the flatmate who is named on the tenancy agreement, or - if there is more than one tenant - the tenant given the role of dealing with their flatmates who are not tenants.The reason you pay your bond to the head tenant, is because they will have already paid a bond for the rental property at the beginning of the tenancy. They will have paid it directly to Tenancy Services, or to the landlord (who must pass it on to Tenancy Services). The head tenant should give you a receipt and tell you how to get your bond backIf you pay a bond to the head tenant, they should:give you a receipt for the bond
tell you how you can get your bond back when you leave and
have this information recorded in your flatting agreement.
Download a flatting agreement template, from the Tenancy Services website. It's best to have a written agreement with the head tenantInformation about how much bond you have paid and how you get it back, should be in your flatting agreement. This is a contract between you and the head tenant.Having an agreement in writing protects both parties, in case you have a dispute with them once you want to leave the flat and get your bond back.The head tenant should return your bond when you move outWhen you move out, the head tenant should return your bond money. There may be some circumstances where you may not get your bond back - for example if you did not look after the property or missed rent payments.Find out what your rights are if you have problems getting your bond back when you leave.Update your flatting agreement if a different flatmate takes over as the tenantIf the head tenant changes while you are flatting together, get a new flatting agreement with the new one. Also, the new head tenant might need to update the bond lodgement record which is held with Tenancy Services. If you all leave the flat and end the tenancy, only the person or people named on the bond lodgement record can retrieve the bond money. Learn more about what happens to the bond when a tenancy ends.More information about flattingFind more guidance about your rights when flatting, on the Tenancy Services website.   Print 