What happens at the end of a fixed term tenancy?

A "fixed-term tenancy" is a tenancy that lasts for an agreed upon amount of time. The tenancy agreement must state the length of the tenancy. Learn about the different types of tenancy.Check what should be in a tenancy agreement. What happens at the end of a fixed term tenancy depends on how long the fixed term is and when the tenancy agreement was signed.Fixed-term tenancies signed before 11 February 2021 Fixed term tenancies signed before 11 February 2021, automatically become a periodic tenancy at the end of the fixed term – unless you (or another tenant) and your landlord agree to renew the fixed term. If both parties agree to renew the fixed term, the agreement needs to be in writing and signed by both parties.If you do not want the fixed term tenancy to roll over onto a periodic tenancy, you need to give notice to your landlord. If your landlord does not want the tenancy to roll over they need to notify you. This needs to be done 21 to 90 days before the end of the fixed term.Fixed-term tenancy agreements signed after 11 February 2021 For fixed-term tenancies signed after 11 February 2021 for longer than 90 days, at the end of this period the tenancy automatically becomes a periodic tenancy. You and your landlord can agree to renew the fixed term instead. The agreement needs to be in writing and signed by both parties.If you want to leave at the fixed term tenancy, you have to give at least 28 days' notice to your landlord at the end of the fixed term. If your landlord wants you to leave at the end of the fixed term, they must give you a reason and give appropriate notice (the same requirements for ending a periodic tenancy).This also applies if you signed a short fixed-term tenancy after 11 February 2021, and it was extended or renewed so that the entire tenancy term is more than 90 days.A short fixed-term tenancy does not automatically become a periodic tenancy at the end of the termA short fixed-term tenancy is a fixed-term tenancy of no more than 90 days. Unless you and your landlord agree otherwise, you have to leave the property by the end of the fixed term.Find out what you need to do when your tenancy ends.  Print 