How do I apply to the Tenancy Tribunal online?

To apply online, you need a desktop or laptop computer
You might be able to do your application on your mobile phone, but it is best to use a desktop or laptop computer.
If this is not possible, you could apply using a printed form.
Learn how to apply to the Tenancy Tribunal on a printed form.
You need a RealMe login
You need a RealMe login to apply online.
Find out how to get a RealMe login.
You need a working email address
You need a working email address, so the Tenancy Tribunal can respond to your application.
You need to pay the application fee
If you are applying online, you need to pay the application fee using:
a valid Visa or MasterCard, or
a bank account with ANZ, ASB, BNZ, Kiwibank, TSB or Westpac for an Internet Banking payment.
You need electronic copies of supporting documents
As part of your online application you will need to upload electronic copies of your tenancy agreement and any other supporting documents.
Have your bond number (if applicable)
If you have lodged a bond, you also need your bond number.
Start applying to the Tenancy Tribunal online
Go to the online application form on the Tenancy Services website {apply online}.
More information about making an application to the Tenancy Tribunal
Learn more about applying to the Tenancy Tribunal on the following websites:
 Tenancy Services 
Aratohu Tenant Advocacy.
If you need help with your application you can contact your local CAB or call Tenancy Services on 0800 TENANCY (0800 83 62 62).
The above information only applies to renting situations covered by the Residential Tenancies Act (RTA), as well as unit title disputes. Find out more about which renting situation are not covered by the RTA.   Print 