There are two of us named on the tenancy agreement and the other person is leaving. What are my options? 

In a situation where one tenant is leaving, the options for the remaining tenants are as follows.
You and the other tenant can end the tenancy altogether
You could decide to leave as well, and end the tenancy altogether.
To end a periodic tenancy, you just need to give your landlord 28 days’ notice.
Find out more about ending a periodic tenancy.
It is not so easy to end a fixed term tenancy early.
Learn about ending a fixed term tenancy early.
You can get a replacement flatmate who will also be a tenant
You can find a replacement flatmate who will also be a tenant (be named on the tenancy agreement).
This is called “assignment”, and applies to both periodic and fixed term tenancies. Landlords have to consider all requests from tenants to assign the tenancy and cannot decline unreasonably.
If you do not find a replacement flatmate immediately, you could be liable for the departing tenant’s share of the rent until you do.
Your landlord and all remaining tenants must agree to an assignment
Your landlord needs to give you consent to assign the tenancy to a new tenant. You can use a Tenancy Services template to ask permission from your landlord.
Download the template from the Tenancy Services website (PDF, 42.7KB).
If you are not the only remaining tenant in the rental property, all of the other tenants must also agree to the assignment.
When assigning a new tenant, you must complete a Change of tenant form
You, the replacement tenant (any other remaining tenants) and the landlord must all complete and sign a Change of tenant form.
Download a Change of tenant form from the Tenancy Services website.
Email the completed and signed form to bonds@tenancy.govt.nz or
Post it to –
Tenancy Services
PO Box 50445
Porirua 5240
This removes the outgoing tenant from the bond record and replaces it with the new tenant’s name.
You need to complete and send the Change of tenant form within ten days of the change of tenant
The bond record must be updated within 10 working days of the change of tenant.
More information about assignment
Learn more about how assignment works, on the Tenancy Services website.
Assignment is not the same as subletting
Assigning a tenancy to a new tenant is not the same as subletting.
Find out about subletting.
You can get a replacement flatmate who will not be a tenant
You could decide to become the sole tenant of the rental property, but get a flatmate to help with the rent costs.
In this case you need to notify Tenancy Services about removing the departing tenant from the tenancy agreement and bond record. Follow the steps for changing a tenant (getting permission from your landlord and completing a Change of tenant form).
It is a good idea to have a flat-sharing agreement with your flatmate, as their contract is with you and not your landlord.
Download a flat-sharing agreement template from the Tenancy Services website.  Print 