I am thinking of taking in boarders. What do I need to consider?

Some types of boarding situations are covered by tenancy lawIf the property has rooms for six or more tenants and the tenancies would be for at least 28 days this falls under the Residential Tenancies Act, you will have certain obligations under the Residential Tenancies Act (RTA). Learn about your obligations if your boarding house is covered by the RTA.Find out what boarding and renting situations are no covered by the RTA.If your boarding situation does not fall under the Residential Tenancies Act, your legal rights and obligations, and those of your boarder, will be similar to that of a tenant and their flatmate. This includes if you charge a family member (such as your adult offspring) to live in your house with you. Things to consider before taking on a boarderYou should think about: whether will you feel secure sharing your home with a stranger around (for example, your boarder will probably be sharing your kitchen, bathroom and living room)
whether you are doing this to earn extra money, or for company (as the rent money could be taxable)
If you decide to proceed, think about how you will choose your boarder and what you would provide to them:whether you want the boarder to be of a particular gender or age, waged or unwaged
how long you would like the boarder to stay for
whether you will provide meals, and which meals
whether you will offer household services, such as room-cleaning, bed-making, or laundry
whether the rent will include the cost of landline, Internet and power – or you will ask the boarder to pay for these separately.
Make a written agreementIt is a good idea to have a written agreement which you and the boarder can sign. A written boarding agreement is mandatory for boarding house tenancies.With a written, signed agreement, both parties to know where they stand, and you will have evidence of what you agreed to in the event of a dispute.Download a flat-sharing agreement template from the Tenancy Service website  and customise it into a private board agreement.Find out how you and your boarder could settle a dispute.  Print 