What are my rights if I have a rent-by-the-room tenancy?

In a rent-by-the-room tenancy, you rent your room in a house or apartment, and share communal areas such as the lounge and kitchen with other tenants in the house or apartment. Each tenant has a separate tenancy agreement with the landlord.
Some rent-by-the-room tenancies are covered by the Residential Tenancies Act
If the property is intended for at least six tenants at any one time, the rules for boarding house tenancies might apply.
Boarding house tenancies are covered by the Residential Tenancies Act (RTA).
Find out what kinds of rent-by-the-room tenancies are covered by the Residential Tenancies Act.
For example, if your tenancy is covered by the RTA, then: 
the tenancy agreement cannot be a fixed-term agreement 
the landlord can end your tenancy by giving 28 days’ notice (less in certain circumstances)
you can end your tenancy by giving 48 hours’ notice 
the landlord can increase your rent with 28 days’ written notice 
the landlord has the right to enter communal areas of the property at any time.
Learn more about your rights and obligations in a boarding house tenancy.
You can call Tenancy Services (0800 83 62 62) for advice if you are not sure whether the tenancy you are considering would be treated as a boarding house tenancy under law.
Your tenancy might actually be a flatting situation
You could actually be in a private board situation if:
your room is in a house or apartment that your landlord (or their family) normally lives in
there are fewer than six people boarding there
the rental agreement does not say that the RTA applies.
In this situation, you are not covered by the RTA. So what your rights and obligations are will depends on what you agreed to with your landlord (preferably in writing).
Learn more about rent-by-the-room tenancies, on the Aratohu Tenant Advocate website.
Things to confirm with your landlord if the rent-by-the-room is not a boarding house tenancy
If you are thinking of signing a rent-by-the-room tenancy, here are some things to ask your landlord (and preferably included in the written agreement):
Who is responsible for the communal areas?Check your tenancy agreement to see what it says about communal areas such as the kitchen, bathrooms, garden etc. It should specify who has access to these areas, any cleaning arrangements and what happens if there is damage done.It is likely that the tenancy agreement will give the landlord or property manager the right to enter the communal areas at any time. This is because when a house is rented out by the room, the landlord often takes responsibility for ensuring that common areas are clean and well-maintained.
Who pays for power and how is this is metered?Unless each room has a separate meter, the landlord will be the one who pays the power. Your rent should include power and other fixed charges.
How will you be charged for other utilities such as water and internet?
  Print 