What can I do if my tenant will not leave at the end of the tenancy? 







You could apply for a possession order
A possession order is an order for your tenant to leave the rental property.
For any kind of tenancy, if your tenant refuses to leave when they are legally required to, then you can apply to the Tenancy Tribunal for a possession order. 
Find out how to apply to the Tenancy Tribunal.
If you decide to apply for a possession order, you must do it within 90 days after the tenancy ends
You must make this application within 90 days after the tenancy ending. Otherwise, a new periodic tenancy will begin with the same conditions as the previous one. Until the tenant leaves, you and your tenant have to fulfil your respective obligations to each other.
Learn about the differences between different types of tenancies.
If your tenant still refuses to leave you can apply for an eviction warrant
If the Tenancy Tribunal has made a possession order but your tenant still refuses to leave, you need to take the order to the District Court to apply for an eviction warrant. 
Find out more about eviction warrants, on the Ministry of Justice website.
You should do this within 90 days of the date of the possession order. If you do not, a new periodic tenancy will begin with the same conditions as the previous one.
If your eviction warrant is granted, a bailiff or police officer will evict your tenant.
It is illegal for you to evict the tenant yourself.
More information about enforcing Tenancy Tribunal orders
Learn about about how to enforce a Tenancy Tribunal order, on the Tenancy Services website.





  Print 