What is the best way to resolve a dispute with my landlord?

The first approach you should try is talking with your landlord, so that you can each try to clarify your rights and obligations and try to come to an agreement. You can view this guide from the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment's Tenancy Services for tips and tools to help you prepare for a productive discussion with your landlord.For example:First, tell the landlord about the problem in person or on the phone, and then follow up with a letter confirming the conversation – if nothing happens, contact the landlord again.
Keep copies of all letters or notes you send to the landlord or receive from the landlord.
Keep a record of your conversations with the landlord.
MBIE's Tenancy Services has a template letter you can send to your landlord, giving them 14 days' notice to remedy the problem (this is called a "notice to remedy").
Contact Tenancy Services (0800 TENANCY (0800 83 62 62) or a CAB for information.
Continue to pay rent, and give the proper notice if you decide to move out.
More information about approaching your landlord with a tenancy issue is on the the Aratohu Tenant Advocacy website. Depending on the issue, it may be appropriate to take further action.You can talk to the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment's Tenancy Services about how to progress. They will normally recommend mediation  as a first step and if this fails either party can apply to the Tenancy Tribunal.Debt-related disputeIf the dispute is related to debt, and you and your landlord are able come to an agreement about it, your landlord may choose to have the agreement formalised as a mediator’s order by applying to the FastTrack Resolution Service. This is provided by Tenancy Services and allows both parties to formalise their agreement without having to go through mediation first. If your landlord does this, Tenancy Services will contact you (the tenant) to confirm what you’ve agreed to before writing up your case. If there seems to be a discrepancy between what you agreed to and the information Tenancy Services received, be sure to let them know.Serious on-going breachesIf your landlord is responsible for on-going serious breaches of your tenancy rights (eg, the condition of the rental property is a significant risk to your health), even after you have talked to your landlord and given them a notice to remedy, you can make a complaint to the Compliance and Investigations Team. You can contact the Team using this online form.The information in this article only applies to rental situations that are covered by the Residential Tenancies Act (RTA). Some types of situations where the RTA does not apply to includes flatting, private board and when the landlord or a member of their family is living in the house. Find out which rental situations are not covered by the RTA.  Print 