What is the difference between a tenant, a flatmate and a boarder?

Whether you are considered a tenant, a flatmate or a boarder under the Residential Tenancies Act (RTA), determines whether you have tenancy rights under RTA. Only tenants have rights under the Residential Tenancies Act 1986.Learn about tenants' rights under the Residential Tenancies Act 1986.Find out which renting situations are not covered by the RTA.In all types of rental situations it is best to have a written, signed agreement so the renter and their landlord have evidence of what they have agreed to.Renting situations where you are a tenantYou are a tenant if you:rent a property from a landlord, and the landlord does not live on the same property. You should have a written tenancy agreement signed by both you and your landlord.
Find out what should be in your tenancy agreement.rent a room in a boarding house that is covered by the RTA.
Find out what kinds of boarding houses are covered by the RTA.Find out what should be in your boarding house agreement.Learn more about boarding house tenancies.Renting situations where you are a flatmateYou are a flatmate if you:are not named on the tenancy agreement but you share a house (that is not a boarding house) or apartment with others, and contribute to the rent, utilities and chores. 
pay rent to share a house or apartment with the landlord, or a member of the landlord's family. 
Flatmates do not have rights and obligations under the RTA.Download a flatting/house-sharing agreement template, from the Tenancy Services website.Learn about your rights as a flatmate.Renting situations where you are a private boarderYou are a private boarder if you rent a room in a boarding house that is not covered by the Residential Tenancies Act 1986 (RTA) then you are a boarder and you do not have rights or obligations under the RTA. You and your landlord can customise Tenancy Service's flat/house sharing agreement template, to record what you have agreed to..Find out what kinds of boarding houses are not covered by the RTA.Download a flatting/house-sharing agreement template, from the Tenancy Services website.Learn about your rights as a private boarder.  Print 