My boarding house tenant is behind in rent and left without paying. Can I keep their property and sell it?

No - you cannot take your tenant’s belongings without giving them proper notice and reasonable opportunity to retrieve them (even if they owe you money).Notice of inspectionIf you have reason to believe that the tenant does not intend to come back, and their rent is in arrears, the boarder’s room can be considered “abandoned”. First, you will need to give 24 hours' notice of your intention to inspect the place. If they are not in at the boarding house when you go to give them notice of the inspection, you can just put the notice on the door of their room.Notice of terminationAfter the end of the notice period, you can enter the room to inspect it and confirm that the tenancy has been abandoned. You can then give them (or place it on their door) a notice of termination, which tells them their tenancy will end in 48 hours. The notice must state the date and time at which the tenancy will be terminated.Tenancy Tribunal applicationYou can then apply to the Tenancy Tribunal to have the tenancy formally terminated, and for rent arrears and damages. You can also request an order for disposal of any property your tenant has abandoned. If the tenant paid a bond, then you can also apply to take a portion of the bond to cover the rent costs.More informationYou can read more about abandoned goods on the Tenancy Services website, and about ending a boarding house tenancy on the Aratohu Tenant Advocacy website. Note that this information only applies to boarding houses covered by the Residential Tenancies Act (RTA). We also have information about dealing with abandoned property in:periodic and fixed term tenancies;
flatting situations; and
situations not related to renting.
  Print 