Does the landlord have to provide heating in their rental properties?

Yes, your landlord must provide heating in your rented home - but only in the main living area. The heating must meet the Healthy Homes Standards for heating.Learn more about the Healthy Homes Standards.All private rentals must comply with all healthy homes standards, including the heating standard, within 120 days of any new or renewed tenancy on or after 1 July 2021, with all private rentals complying by 1 July 2025.Your landlord must provide at least one fixed heater to heat your living room to at least 18°CUnder the Healthy Homes Standards, the landlord must provide at least one fixed (not portable) heater that can directly heat the living room to at least 18°C. (This is a minimum standard – having adequate heating in the other rooms as well is even better).The heater (or heaters) must have a heating capacity of at least 1.5 kW, and be appropriate for the room (considering the size of the room, how many internal and external walls it has, and how big the windows are).How to work out heating requirements for your living roomYou can work out what the heating requirements will be for a living room by using the heating assessment tool on the Tenancy Services website. You will need to know the size of your living room, including the walls, floor and windows. Read their guide to using the heating assessment tool before you start. Alternatively, you (or your landlord) could use Schedule 2 of the Healthy Homes Standards regulations or pay a professional to interpret Schedule 2 for you.Your living area must have an acceptable type of heaterAcceptable types of heater include:Heat pump or electric heater, with a thermostat
Wood burner
Pellet burner
Flued gas heater
In most cases, an electric heater (unless it is a heat pump) would only be acceptable for a small living area, or to “top up” an existing heater that your landlord installed before 1 July 2019 (for example, in a small apartment).Types of heater that are not acceptable include:open fire
un-flued combustion heater, such as a portable LPG bottle heater.
More information about heating requirements for residential rental propertiesLearn more about the heating standard for rentals, on the following websites:Aratohu Tenant Advocacy
Tenancy Services 
The Healthy Homes Standards only applies to rental situations covered by the Residential Tenancies Act (RTA). Find out what kinds of rental situations are not covered by the RTA.  Print 