Can a landlord  ask for my personal information when I apply to rent their property? 

When a landlord wants a tenant's personal information they must follow the Privacy ActThe Privacy Act, controls how agencies (such as landlords) can collect, use, share and store personal information.Read more about the Privacy Act.Personal information includes your name, address, date of birth, address, income, and whether you are single or have children.For example:a landlord should only ask for the personal information they need.
The landlord must tell the tenant how they will use the information. They must only use the information for that purpose.
A landlord must store a tenant’s personal information securely. They must not share the information with anyone else except with the tenant’s permission.
A tenant has the right to ask a landlord for a copy of the personal information the landlord has about them, and to correct any errors in the information.
If a landlord shares a tenant’s personal information with other landlords (for example, on an online tenant “blacklist”), they are likely to be in breach of the Privacy Act. Read about tenant blacklists and privacy, on the Privacy Commissioner website.
Information a landlord can collect from prospective tenantsThere is a lot of personal information the landlord or property manager can collect from you, when you apply to rent their residential rental property to live in.This includes:the prospective tenant’s name and contact details
proof of their identity
whether they are aged 18 years or over
how long they intend to rent the property
the contact details of referees, from a past landlord for example
how many people will live in the property
the names of people who will live in the property but not as tenants (for example, flatmates, children). Read about the difference between tenants and flatmates.
whether any of the people living there own a pet (but only if the tenancy agreement does not allow for pets)
whether any of the people living there smoke (but only if the tenancy agreement does not allow for smoking at the property).
Information the landlord can ask you for if they shortlist you for a tenancyIf you get on the landlord’s shortlist of possible tenants, they are allowed to ask you for:your date of birth or other proof of identity, so the landlord can do a credit check or criminal record check, and
evidence that you can pay the rent. Examples include:
a payslip or letter from their employer
evidence of rental payments from a previous tenancy, or
a letter from Work and Income.

Information the landlord can ask you for when you start a tenancyIf you start a new tenancy, the landlord can ask for:information about your vehicle (car, motorbike etc), if the landlord will provide parking
an address for service (where the landlord can send you letters and notices)
the name and contact details for someone they can contact if there is an emergency
your Work and Income client number (only if you are getting a Work and Income accommodation supplement to help pay the rent, and the landlord can show they need this information).
Information a landlord should not ask you forLandlords should not ask for other personal information. They also cannot ask for broad consent to collect information about you from other sources.Examples of personal information the landlord should not ask you, include information about your:disability or mental illness
nationality
age (other than to confirm you are at least 18 years old)
religion
gender or sexual orientation
expenses
insurance
relationship or parent status (for example, whether you are pregnant or share the care of a child)
social media website addresses
employment history.
They also cannot ask you:for evidence of how you spend your income (for example, a full bank statement showing individual transactions) or
whether you are experiencing family violence.
If a landlord breaches the Privacy Act you can report it to the Privacy CommissionerYou can report a breach of the Privacy Act to the Office of the Privacy Commissioner online.Your report will be confidential. If the Privacy Commissioner decides to take enforcement action against the landlord they will not reveal your name or personal details.If you cannot report it online, or you need help with reporting it, you can:call them 0800 803 909 (Monday – Friday, 10am – 3pm) or
send them a letter to PO Box 10 094, Wellington 6143.
If a landlord’s breach of the Privacy Act disadvantaged you, you can apply to the Tenancy TribunalYou can apply to the Tenancy Tribunal if you think a landlord has disadvantaged you by not complying with the Privacy Act. If you are successful, you can ask the Tribunal to anonymise their records, so that anyone viewing the records will not find out you were involved in the claim.Read more about the Tenancy Tribunal.More information about your privacy rights as a tenantRead more about privacy and tenancy is on the Office of the Privacy Commissioner website.You can also read about privacy rights for tenants the Aratohu Tenant Advocacy website.  Print 