How do I report suspected meth use in a rental property?

Methamphetamine (meth) is a class A drug in New Zealand. Living in a property where meth has been manufactured or heavily smoked over a long period of time, can have potential health consequences. If you suspect that there is, or has been, ongoing meth use in a rental property you can tell the owner of the property, notify your local council or report it to the police.  Landlords should be sure that their rental property is not contaminated with meth, before renting it out to tenants  Landlords must provide a clean and habitable property. A property that tests below 15 micrograms per 100cm2 is considered safe to live in and does not need to be decontaminated. If a rental property has been contaminated with meth over the threshold of what is deemed safe, the landlord must get it decontaminated before renting it out to tenants. Learn about the decontamination standards, which you can download from the Standards New Zealand website.  If you suspect meth use in a property you are renting, contact the landlord If you tell your landlord you suspect meth use in the property you rent, they must arrange for a professional to check for any signs of meth contamination.If traces of meth are found, the landlord must arrange for the property to be cleaned and decontaminated. Once the property is decontaminated there needs to be less than 15 micrograms per 100 cm2 traceable.  Your landlord must give you advance notice if they want to test your rental for meth contaminationIf your landlord wants to test for meth in a property that you are living in, they must give you the proper amount of notice for property inspections (48 hours).  You do not have to stay living in the property if dangerous levels of meth are found  If the property tests above 15 micrograms per 100cm2, this is considered a health risk and a breach of the Residential Tenancies Act 1986.Landlords are not allowed to rent out properties that are contaminated with meth. This would be a breach of your tenancy agreement and means that you can move out immediately if you want to.  Smoking, selling and making meth in a rental property is against the law and in breach of any tenancy agreement Tenants must not use the rental property for an unlawful purpose. If you smoke, sell or make meth in the rental property, you are acting illegally and in breach your tenancy agreement. Your landlord can report it to the police and ask you to leave the property immediately. You may also be liable for damages and could be ordered to pay a penalty of up to $1000 by the Tenancy Tribunal.  More information about renting and methamphetamineLearn more about rental properties affected by methamphetamine, on the Tenancy Services website.   Print 