What happens to the bond if there is a change of flatmate? 

Find out what a bond is.
What happens when a flatmate leaves and is replaced by a new one, depends on whether they are on the tenancy agreement.
If the flatmate is not on the tenancy agreement, the replacement flatmate can pay their share of the bond to the one that is leaving
The departing flatmate should get back their share of the bond when they leave.
If there is a flat-sharing agreement, it should state how bond will be repaid when a flatmate leaves.
The head tenant can return your share of the bond. The head tenant is the flatmate who is named on the tenancy agreement, or - if there is more than one tenant - the tenant given the role of dealing with the flatmates who are not tenants.
Or, if there is a replacement flatmate, the replacement flatmate could pay their share of the bond directly to the departing flatmate.
If the departing flatmate is a tenant, you all need to update the bond record
If the departing flatmate’s name is on the tenancy agreement, you all need to update the bond record.
Learn how to do this by completing a signing a Change of Tenant form.
Talk to the landlord about how the departing tenant can get their bond back
You (the tenants) and your landlord should agree on how to refund the departing tenant’s share of the bond.
Mostly likely you will agree that the replacement tenant should pay their share of the bond directly to the departing tenant.
More information about the bond when there is a change of tenant
Find out more about the bond when tenants change, on the Tenancy Services website.
The above information does not apply to renting situations such as: private board; or when the landlord or a member of their family is living in the house with the tenants.   Print 