What happens to my bond at the end of my tenancy?

A bond is money which is held as security for any unpaid rent or damage to the property, that is your (the tenant's) fault.You should get your bond money back at the end of the tenancy if you looked after the propertyYour bond should be refunded to you at the end of your tenancy, if:there is no damage to the property
you left the property reasonably clean and tidy and
your rent is up to date.
You can either get your bond money refunded to you, or transferred to your new tenancy. Find out about transferring your bond.Your landlord can deduct from the bond if the property has been left damaged or unclean Your landlord can claim some or all of the bond money, if:you left the property damaged
you did not leave the property in a reasonably clean and tidy condition
there are rent arrears (unpaid rent)
did not perform any gardening chores you agreed to or
there are items missing from the property that are included in the tenancy.
Your landlord cannot make a bond refund conditional on you paying for the property to be professionally cleaned. They cannot deduct from the bond for normal wear and tear on the property.Learn more about these unenforceable conditions.You and your landlord have to agree to release the bond, and complete some formsYou and your landlord have to agree on releasing the bond.Either party can apply to Tenancy Services to have the bond refunded, by signing the appropriate forms setting out the details for payment:the bond refund form (PDF, 1.05MB)
the additional tenants form, if there are more than two tenants (PDF, 407KB)
the bond transfer form, if you are asking for your bond to be transferred to a new tenancy (PDF, 492KB)
The names and signatures on the bond refund form have to match those of the bond lodgement form.Find out about the bond lodgement form.Email or post the completed, signed forms to Tenancy ServicesYou or your landlord can send the completed and signed forms to Tenancy Services.you can either:scan and email them to bonds@tenancy.govt.nz or
post them to Tenancy Services, PO Box 50445, Porirua 5240.
It should take five working days for Tenancy Services to process the bond refund application.What happens if you or your landlord do not sign the bond refund formIf you leave without signing a bond refund form, your landlord can claim against the bond by submitting the forms to Tenancy Services anyway. If your landlord cannot or will sign the bond refund form, you should complete the forms anyway and send it to Tenancy Services. They will try to contact your landlord.If you do not agree on how much bond refund you should get, you can apply to the Tenancy TribunalIf you and your landlord disagree on how much of the bond should be refunded to you, you can apply to the Tenancy Tribunal. You have to pay an application fee of around $20.If you are both willing to, you can do mediation first.If mediation does not work, your application will be referred to the Tenancy Tribunal.Find out how to apply to the Tenancy Tribunal.Who signs the bond refund form if your landlord has died (or if you have)If you or your landlord or tenant have died then the administrator of the deceased's  estate must sign a bond refund form.Learn about how is the administrator of a deceased's  estate.Find more information about bond refundLearn more about getting your bond back at the end of a tenancy, on the Aratohu Tenant Advocate website.Find out more about bond refunds on the Tenancy Services website.The above information only applies to renting situations covered by the Residential Tenancies Act (RTA). Some types of situations where the RTA does not apply, include: flatting; private board; and when the landlord is living in the house. Find out more about which renting situation are not covered by the RTA. Also, boarding house tenancies have separate bond rules.  Print 