What happens to the bond at the beginning of the tenancy?

Find out what a bond is.
The tenant and their landlord must both sign a bond lodgement form
Both the landlord and the tenant need to sign a bond lodgement form. 
Download the bond lodgement form from the Tenancy Services website.
The tenant can pay the bond to the landlord, who pays it to Tenancy Services
If the tenant pays the bond to the landlord, the landlord must then:
give the tenant a receipt and
pay the bond money to Tenancy Services within 23 working days of receiving it, online.
Learn more about lodging the bond, on the Tenancy Services website.
Or the tenant can pay the bond directly to Tenancy Services
If the landlord agrees to it, the tenant can pay the bond directly to Tenancy Services.
Tenancy Services will send confirmation to the landlord and the tenant
Once Tenancy Services has processed the bond lodgement, they will send an acknowledgement to both landlord and tenant.
It is a good idea for both parties to keep this acknowledgement, as this will make the bond refund process easier at the end of the tenancy.
More information about the bond at the start of the tenancy
Find out more about what happens to the bond when a tenancy beings, on the following websites:
Tenancy Services
Aratohu Tenant Advocate.
The above information only applies to renting situations covered by the Residential Tenancies Act (RTA). Some types of situations where the RTA does not apply to includes flatting, private board and when the landlord is living in the house. Find out more about which renting situation are not covered by the RTA.   Print 