Does my landlord have to give receipts for my rent payments?

You need to have a record of your rent payments in case there is a dispute over your rent payments later. When the landlord does not have to give you a rent receiptYour landlord does not have to give you receipts if you pay rent in a way that automatically generates a record:by automatic bank payment
directly into the landlord’s bank account used for tenancy
by deduction from your pay or
rent is paid directly from your benefit into the landlord’s account.
When your landlord must give you a rent receiptIf you have no automatic record of paying your rent (for example, because you pay it in cash) your landlord must give you a receipt.How soon your landlord must give you a rent receipt, depends on how you pay the rent:If you pay the rent in cash, your landlord must give you a receipt immediately.
If you pay the rent in another way that does not leave a record for you, your landlord must give you a receipt within 72 hours.
What should be in a rent receiptRent receipts should include the following information:how much money you paid them and what it was for
the date you paid the rent
the period of time the rent payment covered
your name (as the person who paid)
the address of the rental property (or another way to identify it, for example, a reference number)
a signature from the person who received the rent (the landlord or someone representing them).
If you ask your landlord in writing for a written statement of rent payments, they must give it to you. Landlords must keep records of rents they receive.The Tenancy Services website and Aratohu Tenant Advocate website have more information about rent receipts and record keeping.  Print 