What are my rights as a renter after a natural disaster? 

If you need emergency accommodation because of damage to your home, you can contact the Temporary Accommodation Service for help with emergency accommodation while your home is repaired or rebuilt. This is for renters as well as home owners.If your rental is uninhabitable because of the damage, you can end the tenancy with two days' notice If your rental is so seriously damaged it is uninhabitable, either you or your landlord can end the tenancy.  In this situation you can give your landlord two days' notice to terminate the tenancy, and your landlord or property manager is able to give 7 days' notice to terminate the tenancy.In either case, if  you had paid rent in advance then you can ask your landlord to refund that rent so that you are only paying for the days you remain in the tenancy.Learn more about ending a tenancy because the property is uninhabitable.Your landlord is responsible for cleaning up and repairs to the property Talk to your landlord as soon as you can, to let them know about any damage or need for repairs.Landlords are responsible for maintaining the property in a reasonable condition. This includes paying to repair any damage to the property caused by a natural disaster.Tenants are not responsible for any damage to the property or clean up following a natural disaster.For example, if the property has been damaged by flooding, your landlord is responsible for drying it They must pay for any power charges incurred (for example, pay you for using up electricity or pay  for bringing in a generator).  Your landlord must get repairs done in a timely manner and should keep you up to date with how long the repairs are expected to take. A general rule is that the more important the work is to the health, safety and comfort of the tenant, the sooner it should be done.Learn more about your landlord's responsibilities when the rental is damaged in a natural disaster.You are responsible for your possessions A landlord is not responsible for damage to your belongings. If you have contents insurance, contact your insurer.If your rental is damaged, your landlord should reduce your rentIf your rental is partially uninhabitable, or part of the rental is so seriously damaged it is uninhabitable, your landlord should reduce your rent.This is also true if the repairs will cause you ongoing inconvenience - because your landlord has an obligation to ensure your quiet enjoyment of the property, even while repair work is being carried out.Learn about rent reduction when the rental is damaged, on the Tenancy Services website.  If the repairs are substantial you can also try asking your landlord for replacement accommodationIf the repair work is going to cause substantial disruption and make it difficult for you to continue living in the premises then you can ask the landlord to provide or pay for equivalent accommodation during the work period. They do not have to agree to it.Find out more about your rights if the rental is seriously damaged.If the rental is damaged, you can decide to end the tenancyIf you want to end the tenancy because of the damage, you can: give the 28 days’ notice - if you have a periodic tenancy and feel able to remain in the rental for the next 28 days
ask your landlord to agree to ending a fixed term tenancy early
applying to the Tenancy Tribunal to end the tenancy early, if your landlord will not agree to it.
Find out more about ending a periodic tenancyLearn more about ending a fixed term tenancy earlyFind out how to apply to the Tenancy Tribunal. Learn more about your rights if you want to end the tenancy because of damage to the rentalIf your landlord wants to end your tenancy but you do not agree, you can challenge thisIf your landlord is ending your tenancy because of damage to the property, and you do not agree that the property is uninhabitable then you can apply to the Tenancy Tribunal to challenge the notice. Find out how to apply to the Tenancy Tribunal. Learn more about your rights if the rental is damaged but can be repaired.  Print 