The place I rent needs repairs but my landlord says they will increase my rent  to cover the repair costs. Can they do this? 

It depends on:the type of tenancy you have (periodic or fixed term - learn how a periodic tenancy is different from a fixed term tenancy. )
whether it has been 12 months since your last increase and
whether the landlord is making necessary repairs or significant building improvements.
Your landlord is responsible for keeping the property in reasonable repairYour landlord is obliged to keep the rental property in a reasonable state of repair.This means doing regular maintenance and ensuring that any necessary repairs are completed. Learn more about maintenance of rental properties, on the Tenancy Services website .Find out about responsibilities around repairs of rental properties, on the Tenancy Services website. If you caused damage to the property, you may be liable for the cost of repairing it. Find out more about liability for damage caused intentionally or through neglect if you caused damage.With a periodic tenancy, you landlord can only increase your rent up to once per yearFor a periodic tenancy, your landlord can increase your rent up to once per year.They can decide how much to increase your rent by, but they must give minimum notice.There is an exception to the 12 month ruleYour landlord is allowed to increase the rent less than 12 months since your last rent increase, if:the landlord has:
improved the property (for example, built a garage or shed so you can use it for storage)
changed the tenancy agreement to your benefit (for example, allowed you to keep a pet) or
improved the facilities, which you (the tenant) will benefit from (for example, added a pool for tenants’ use)

and you agree to it.
Improvements to the property do not include general maintenance and necessary repairs.If you disagree with an early rent increase after they have improved the property, your landlord can apply to the Tenancy TribunalIf you do not agree to an early rent increase because of improvements made to the rental property, your landlord can apply to the Tenancy Tribunal.They can apply for an order to increase your rent inside the usual 12-month period on the grounds that they made improvements to the property.The Tenancy Tribunal can also make an order specifying how much the rent increase can be.If the rent increase is unreasonable or unwarranted, you can apply to the Tenancy TribunalIf you think the rent increase is unreasonably high, or your landlord increased your rent early just for necessary repairs, you can apply to the Tenancy Tribunal to resolve this.Find out how to apply to the Tenancy Tribunal. Rent increases for fixed term tenancies are only allowed if they are set out in the tenancy agreementIf you have a fixed term tenancy, they cannot change the rent unless it is specifically allowed for in the tenancy agreement.Your landlord must still do maintenance and general repairs to the property as needed.More information about rent increasesLearn more about rent increases on the Aratohu Tenant Advocacy website.This information only applies to renting situations covered by the Residential Tenancies Act (RTA). The RTA does not apply to includes flatting, private board and when the landlord or a member of their family is living in the house. Find out more about which renting situations are not covered by the RTA.   Print 