What financial help with renting can I get if I am on a benefit? 

If you have problems getting a rental because of your personal situation, you may be eligible for Tenancy Costs Cover
Tenancy Costs Cover is support Work and Income can provide if you cannot get a rental – for example, because you have:
a poor credit history
a criminal record and/or
a language barrier.
You need to be able to afford to stay in the rental long-term.
Tenancy Costs Cover is to help you pay for outstanding costs from your previous rental – for example, to cover property damage or unpaid rent.
You must pay this money back.
Learn more about Tenancy Costs Cover, on the Work and Income website.
If you do not have enough money to pay the bond you may be eligible for a Bond Grant
The Bond Grant is a loan from Work and Income that you can get to help you pay the bond, on a new tenancy or because your rent has increased.
You must pay this back.
Find out more about the Bond Grant, on the Work and Income website.
If you do not have enough money to pay your landlord rent in advance, you may be eligible for a Rent in Advance Grant
The Rent in Advance Grant is a loan from Work and Income to help you pay your landlord for rent in advance at the beginning of a new tenancy.
You must pay this back.
Learn more about the Rent in Advance Grant, on the Work and Income website.
If you choose to move out of government-subsidised housing into a private rental, you could get a Transition to Alternative Housing Grant
The Transition to Alternative Housing Grant is a one-off payment that Work and Income can give you if you are moving from government-subsidised housing (public housing) into a private rental.
You do not have to pay this back.
Find out more about public housing.
Learn more about the Transition to Alternative Housing Grant, on the Work and Income website.
If you have a place to live but need help with paying the rent, you may be eligible for the Accommodation Supplement
The Accommodation Supplement is money to help you pay your rent or mortgage payments.
You do not have to pay this back.
Learn about the Accommodation Supplement
If you owe rent and might lose your housing, you may be able to receive a Rent Arrears Grant
The Rent Arrears Grant provides up to four weeks' rent to help you get back on track with paying your rent.
You must pay this back.
Find out more about the Rent Arrears Grant.  Print 