Can I be charged any renting related fees in addition to bond and rent?

Fees a landlord is allowed to charge youFee for subletting or change of tenantIf you (a tenant) ask your landlord or their agent (for example, a property manager) to agree to you subletting  the rental property or changing the tenant names on the tenancy agreement, the landlord or agent can charge you to cover the cost of making this change for you. However, they can only charge you for reasonable costs and must give you a breakdown of the costs.Option feeA landlord or agent is allowed to charge you an “option” fee if you want them to hold the rental property for you while you decide whether you want to rent it. They are allowed to charge you up to one week’s rent as an option fee. If you decide to rent the property, they must refund you the option fee or put it toward your rent.If you are asked to pay an option fee, try to get in writing how long you have to decide, and what happens to the option fee if you decide not to rent the property.Fees a landlord or agent is not allowed to charge youKey moneyLandlords and agents are not allowed to charge “key money”. This is money (other than rent and bond) they charge for letting you have the tenancy, or for making changes to the tenancy.Letting feeA letting fee is a commission that a letting agent charges a landlord for arranging the tenancy, which is usually one week's rent plus GST. From 12 December 2018 it became unlawful for landlords to pass on to their tenants a letting fee. More informationMore information about renting-related fees is on the Tenancy website.  Print 