How do I find out if a building I own or live in is earthquake prone?

An earthquake prone building is one that is likely to cause injury, death, collapse or damage another building if there is an earthquake.Your council must tell you if they think a building you own might be earthquake prone Under the Building (Earthquake-prone Buildings) Amendment Act 2016, councils will notify the owners of buildings that are potentially earthquake prone.This only applies to:commercial buildings and
residential building of more than one storey, that either:
have three or more household units (for example, apartments) or
are used for accommodation (such as a hostel or boarding house).

Read our information about what you need to do if a building you own is deemed earthquake prone.Check the national register of earthquake prone buildingsAnyone can check the national register to find out if a building has been assessed as earthquake prone. But remember the register does not list single storey residential buildings. Checking if the home you rent is earthquake proneIf you are concerned about whether the place you live is earthquake prone, and you know your landlord had the building assessed, you can ask your landlord for a copy of the assessment report. However, they are not legally obliged to give you this information.If your landlord will not let you see the assessment report, and you live in a building covered by the Building (Earthquake-prone Buildings) Amendment Act 2016, you can check the national register.Find out if a claim to EQC was made on the propertyAnyone can ask EQC for information about previous claims for disaster damage, for a property. You do this by making an Official Information Act request. Use EQC's Official Information Act request form. If you are buying a home, ask the seller or real estate agentIf you are looking at buying a house, you can ask the owners if they have an engineer’s earthquake assessment as part of the building report. If they do not, you can pay an engineer to check the building yourself.You can also ask the seller or the real estate agent whether a claim has ever been made to EQC about damage from an earthquake or other natural disaster. If the real estate agent has information about a house they are selling, they must not withhold it from you.More information for home buyers is on the following website:EQC
Settled
 Quake-safe your homeIf you are concerned about earthquake safety in your home, you can visit the EQC website and read our article on how to quake-safe your home.You can take steps to quake-safe your home even if you are renting it. Since 2021, landlords have to allow their tenants to make changes inside and outside of the house in order to improve the safety in their homes.   Print 