What should be in a boarding house tenancy agreement?

The following information applies to boarding houses covered by the Residential Tenancies Act (RTA).
Find out what types of boarding houses are covered by the RTA.
Boarding house tenancy agreements must be in writing and signed by the tenant and landlord. The landlord must give a copy to their tenant.
The tenancy agreement should have the details in a standard tenancy agreement, plus additional clauses for boarding house tenancies
A tenancy agreement for a boarding house tenancy must include all of the same details as a standard tenancy agreement, such as the name and contact details of the landlord, property manager and tenant, healthy home statement and insurance statement.
Learn what should be in a standard tenancy agreement.
If you have a boarding house tenancy, it must also include the following clauses
whether the tenancy will last more than 28 days
one or more telephone numbers for the landlord that the tenant can use to contact the landlord at any reasonable time
the address of the boarding house, and the tenant’s room number
whether the boarding room is to be shared with other tenants, and the maximum number of other tenants who may be in the room
whether it is a joint tenancy, and if it is, the names of the other tenants that will share the boarding room
services the landlord will provide that are included in rent (if any)
the name and contact details of the manager of the boarding house, if this is someone other than the landlord.
The landlord should attach the following to the tenancy agreement:
the house rules
fire evacuation procedures
body corporate rules (if the boarding house is a unit title).
You can use the template on the Tenancy Services website
Download a boarding house tenancy agreement template from the Tenancy Services website.  Print 