What obligations do I have as a boarding house landlord?

If you are a landlord of a boarding house covered by the Residential Tenancies Act you have rights and obligations under the Act.Learn about what kinds of boarding house are covered by the Residential Tenancies Act.Below is an outline of your obligations as landlord of a boarding house covered by the RTA.You must provide your boarding house tenants with written tenancy agreementsFind out what should be in a boarding house tenancy agreement. You must display the house rules and evacuation proceduresAs the landlord, you must ensure copies of the house rules and fire evacuation procedures are always on display in the boarding house.You must meet the rules on building health and safetyYou must comply with requirements relating to buildings, health and safety, insulation and smoke alarms. Learn about the rules for smoke alarms in rentals. Find out about the laws and bylaws for rental properties, on the Tenancy Services website.Learn about healthy homes standards for rentals.You must provide clean, secure and well-maintained premisesYou must ensure:the premises are reasonably secure by providing sufficient locks or other security devices.
tenants have access to their room, toilet and bathroom facilities at all times.
the common areas are clean and well-maintained.
You must give the correct notice to your tenantYou must give 28 days' notice if you wish to increase the rent.Find out about the correct notice to end a boarding house tenancy.Learn how much notice you must give a tenant to carry out a property inspection of their room.You must tell the affected tenants if you are changing the locksif you intend to alter, add or remove a lock you must tell any tenant who will be affected by this.More information about your obligationsLearn more about your obligations as a boarding house landlord on the Tenancy Services website.     Print 